.TH TORG 1 "2026" "torg" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
torg \- an Org-mode\(hyflavored terminal text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B torg
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ FILE ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B torg
is a terminal text editor whose editing model is structure\(hyfirst, in the spirit of
Emacs Org mode: a document is a tree of headings you fold, navigate, restructure, and
annotate.
It edits two formats with the same commands \(em
.B Org
(headings marked with
.BR * )
and
.B Markdown
(headings marked with
.BR # ).
.PP
Each named file opens in its own buffer. A file that exists is loaded; a path that does not
exist yet is created on first save; with no file,
.B torg
starts with an empty, untitled buffer.
Files ending in
.B .md
or
.B .markdown
are treated as Markdown; everything else (including
.BR .org )
as Org.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-
Stop option parsing; every following argument is treated as a file name, even one that
begins with
.BR - .
.SH KEY BINDINGS
Keys are grouped by what they do. Full detail is in the guide (see
.BR "SEE ALSO" ).
.SS Movement and editing
.TP
.BR Left ", " Right ", " Up ", " Down
Move the cursor (Up/Down keep a goal column).
.TP
.BR Home ", " End ", " PageUp ", " PageDown
Line ends and screenful paging.
.TP
.B Enter
Split the line;
.BR Backspace / Delete
delete and join at the edges.
.TP
.B Tab
Fold a heading's subtree, or insert a tab elsewhere.
.SS Outline and TODO
.TP
.BR Ctrl+N ", " Ctrl+P
Jump to the next / previous heading.
.TP
.B Ctrl+T
Cycle a heading's keyword: none \(-> TODO \(-> DONE \(-> none.
.SS Restructuring
.TP
.BR Alt+Left ", " Alt+Right
Promote / demote the heading (add
.B Shift
for the whole subtree).
.TP
.BR Alt+Up ", " Alt+Down
Move the subtree up / down among its siblings.
.TP
.BR Alt+Enter ", " Alt+T
Insert a sibling heading, or a
.B TODO
sibling.
.SS Priorities, tags, dates
.TP
.BR Shift+Up ", " Shift+Down
On a timestamp, shift the field under the cursor; otherwise raise / lower the priority
.RB ( [#A] / [#B] / [#C] ).
.TP
.B Ctrl+G
Edit the heading's tags.
.TP
.BR Alt+S ", " Alt+D
Set the heading's SCHEDULED / DEADLINE date (Org only).
.TP
.BR Alt+. ", " Alt+i
Insert an active
.RB < ... >
or inactive
.RB [ ... ]
timestamp.
.SS Files, buffers, and help
.TP
.B Ctrl+S
Save (Save As for an untitled buffer).
.TP
.B Ctrl+O
Open a file
.RB ( ~ / $VAR
expansion and
.B Tab
completion).
.TP
.BR Alt+N ", " Alt+P
Switch to the next / previous buffer.
.TP
.BR Ctrl+B ", " Ctrl+W
Buffer list; close the current buffer.
.TP
.BR Ctrl+H ", " Ctrl+U
Open the quick key reference / the full guide in the editor.
.RB ( Ctrl+K
also opens the reference, for terminals that send
.B Ctrl+H
as
.BR Backspace .)
.TP
.B Ctrl+Q
Quit (asks before discarding unsaved changes).
.TP
.B Esc
Cancel a prompt, picker, or confirmation.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success (including
.B \-\-help
and
.BR \-\-version ).
.TP
.B 1
A file could not be opened, or the terminal could not be set up.
.TP
.B 2
An unknown command\(hyline option was given.
.SH SEE ALSO
The full feature guide and key reference:
.UR https://github.com/systemhalted/torg
.UE .
.SH AUTHOR
torg is free software under the GPL\(hy2.0\(hyor\(hylater license.
